# Graphical Interfaces (X11)

To use a graphical interface on the clusters and you choose not to use the [web portal](/clusters-at-yale/access/ood/), your connection needs to be set up for X11 forwarding, which will transmit the graphical window from the cluster back to your local machine. 
A simple test to see if your setup is working is to run the command `xclock` . 
You should see a simple analog clock window pop up.

## On macOS

1. Download and install the latest [X-Quartz](https://www.xquartz.org/) release.
1. Log out and log back in to your Mac to reset some variables
1. When using ssh to log in to the clusters, use the `-Y` option to enable X11 forwarding. Example: `ssh -Y netid@grace.hpc.yale.edu`

Note: if you get the error "cannot open display", please open an X-Quartz terminal and run the following command, and then log in to the cluster from the X-Quartz terminal:

```bash
launchctl load -w /Library/LaunchAgents/org.macosforge.xquartz.startx.plist
```

## On Windows

We recommend [MobaXterm](/access/ssh/#windows) for connecting to the clusters from Windows. It is configured for X11 forwarding out of the box and should require no additional configuration or software.

## Quick Test

A quick and simple test to check if X11 forwarding is working is to run the command `xclock` in the session you expect to be forwarding. After a short delay, you should see a window with a simple clock pop up.

## Submit an X11 enabled Job

Once configured, you'll usually want to use X11 forwarding on a compute node to do your work. To allocate a simple interactive session with X11 forwarding:

``` bash
salloc --x11
```

For more Slurm options, see our [Slurm documentation](/clusters-at-yale/job-scheduling).
