---
date: '2022-02-06'
---

## Grace Maintenance
_February 3-6, 2022_

### Software Updates

* Latest security patches applied
* Slurm updated to version 21.08.5
* NVIDIA driver updated to version 510.39.01 (except for nodes with K80 GPUs which are stranded at 470.82.01)
* Singularity updated to version 3.8.5
* Open OnDemand updated to version 2.0.20

### Hardware Updates

* Changes have been made to networking to improve performance of certain older compute nodes
 
### Changes to Grace Home Directories

During the maintenance, all home directories on Grace have been moved to our new all-flash storage filesystem, Palmer. The move is in anticipation of the decommissioning of Loomis at the end of the year and will provide a robust login experience by protecting home directory interactions from data intensive compute jobs.

Due to this migration, your home directory path has changed from `/gpfs/loomis/home.grace/<netid>` to `/vast/palmer/home.grace/<netid>`.
Your home directory can always be referenced in bash and submission scripts and from the command line with the `$HOME` variable. Please update any scripts and workflows accordingly.
 
### Interactive Jobs

We have added an additional way to request an interactive job. The Slurm command `salloc` can be used to start an interactive job similar to `srun --pty bash`. In addition to being a simpler command (no `--pty bash` is needed), `salloc` jobs can be used to interactively test `mpirun` executables.
 
### Palmer scratch

Palmer is out of beta! We have fixed the issue with Plink on Palmer, so now you can use Palmer scratch for any workloads. See [https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/data/hpc-storage#60-day-scratch](/data/hpc-storage/#60-day-scratch) for more information on Palmer scratch. 