---
date: '2022-07-01'
---

## July 2022

### Announcements

#### Loomis Decommission

After almost a decade in service, the primary storage system on Grace, Loomis (`/gpfs/loomis`), will be retired later this year. The usage and capacity on Loomis will be replaced by two existing YCRC storage systems, Palmer and Gibbs, which are already available on Grace. Data in Loomis project storage will be migrated to `/gpfs/gibbs/project` during the upcoming August Grace maintenance. See the [Loomis Decommission](/data/loomis-decommission/) documenation for more information and updates.

#### Updates to OOD Jupyter App

OOD Jupyter App has been updated to handle conda environments more intelligently. Instead of listing all the conda envs in your account, the app now lists only the conda environments with Jupyter installed. If you do not see your desired environment listed in the dropdown, check that you have installed Jupyter in that environment. In addition, the “jupyterlab” checkbox in the app will only be visible if the environment selected has jupyterlab installed. 

#### YCRC conda environment

`ycrc_conda_env.list` has been replaced by `ycrc_conda_env.sh`. To update your conda enviroments in OOD for the Jupyter App and RStudio Desktop (with Conda R), please run `ycrc_conda_env.sh update`.

### Software Highlights

- **miniconda/4.12.0** is now available on all clusters
- **RStudio/2022.02.3-492** is now available on all clusters. This is currently the only version that is compatible with the graphic engine used by R/4.2.0-foss-2020b.
- **fmriprep/21.0.2** is now available on Milgram.
- **cellranger/7.0.0** is now available on Farnam.