---
date: '2022-11-01'
---

## November 2022

### Announcements

#### Ruddle Maintenance

The biannual scheduled maintenance for the Ruddle cluster will be occurring Nov 1-3. During this time, the cluster will be unavailable. See the Ruddle maintenance email announcements for more details.

#### Grace and Milgram Maintenance Schedule Change

We will be adjusting the timing of Grace and Milgram's scheduled maintenance periods. Starting this December, Grace's maintenance periods will occur in December and June, with the next scheduled for December 6-8, 2022. Milgram's next maintenance will instead be performed in February and August, with the next scheduled for February 7-9, 2023. Please refer to previously sent communications for more information and see the full maintenance schedule for next year on our status page.

#### Requeue after Timeout

The YCRC clusters all have maximum time-limits that sometimes are shorter than a job needs to finish. This can be a frustration for researchers trying to get a simulation or a project finished. However, a number of workflows have the ability to periodically save the status of a process to a file and restart from where it left off. This is often referred to as "checkpointing" and is built into many standard software tools, like Gaussian and Gromacs. 

Slurm is able to send a signal to your job just before it runs out of time. Upon receiving this signal, you can have your job save its current status and automatically submit a new version of the job which picks up where it left off.  Here is an example of a simple script that resubmits a job after receiving the `TIMEOUT` signal:

```
#!/bin/bash
#SBATCH -p day
#SBATCH -t 24:00:00
#SBATCH -c 1
#SBATCH --signal=B:10@30 # send the signal `10` at 30s before job finishes
#SBATCH --requeue        # mark this job eligible for requeueing

# define a `trap` that catches the signal and requeues the job
trap "echo -n 'TIMEOUT @ '; date; echo 'Resubmitting...'; scontrol requeue ${SLURM_JOBID}  " 10

# run the main code, with the `&` to “background” the task
./my_code.exe &

# wait for either the main code to finish to receive the signal
wait
```

This tells Slurm to send `SIGNAL10` at ~30s before the job finishes. Then we define an action (or `trap`) based on this signal which requeues the job. Don’t forget to add the `&` to the end of the main executable and the `wait` command so that the trap is able to catch the signal. 

### Software Highlights

- **MATLAB/2022b** is now available on all clusters.