---
date: '2022-08-04'
---

## Grace Maintenance
_August 2-4, 2022_

### Software Updates

- Security updates
- Slurm updated to 22.05.2
- NVIDIA drivers updated to 515.48.07 (except for nodes with K80 GPUs, which are stranded at 470.129.06)
- Singularity replaced by Apptainer version 1.0.3 (note: the "singularity" command will still work as expected)
- Lmod updated to 8.7
- Open OnDemand updated to 2.0.26

### Hardware Updates

- Core components of the ethernet network were upgraded to improve performance and increase overall capacity.

### Loomis Decommission and Project Data Migration

After over eight years in service, the primary storage system on Grace, Loomis (`/gpfs/loomis`), will be retired later this year.

**Project.** We have migrated all of the Loomis project space (`/gpfs/loomis/project`) to the Gibbs storage system at `/gpfs/gibbs/project` during the maintenance. You will need to update your scripts and workflows to point to the new location (`/gpfs/gibbs/project/<group>/<netid>`). The "project" symlink in your home directory has been updated to point to your new space (with a few exceptions described below), so scripts using the symlinked path will not need to be updated. If you have jobs in a pending state going into the maintenance that used the absolute Loomis path, we recommend canceling, updating and then re-submitting those jobs so they do not fail.

If you had a project space that exceeds the no-cost allocation (4 TiB), you have received a separate communication from us with details about your data migration. In these instances, your group has been granted a new, empty "project" space with the default no-cost quota. Any scripts will need to be updated accordingly.

**Conda.**  By default, all conda environments are installed into your project directory. However, most conda environments do not survive being moved from one location to another, so you may need to regenerate your conda environment(s). To assist with this, we provide [conda-export documentation](/clusters-at-yale/guides/conda-export/).

**R.**  Similarly, in 2022 we started redirecting user R packages to your project space to conserve home directory usage. If your R environment is not working as expected, we recommend deleting the old installation (found in `~/project/R/<version>`) and rerunning install.packages.

**Custom Software Installation.** If you or your group had any self-installed software in the project directory, it is possible that the migration will have broken the software and it will need to be recompiled. [Contact us](/#get-help) if you need assistance recompiling.

**Scratch60.** The Loomis scratch space (`/gpfs/loomis/scratch60`) is now read-only. All data  in that directory will be purged in 60 days on **October 3, 2022**. Any data in `/gpfs/loomis/scratch60` you wish to retain needs to be copied into another location by that date (such as your Gibbs project or Palmer scratch).

### Changes to Non-Interactive Sessions

Non-interactive sessions (e.g. file transfers, commands sent over ssh) no longer load the standard cluster environment to alleviate performance issues due to unnecessary module loads. Please contact us if this change affects your workflow so we can resolve the issue or provide a workaround.
