---
date: '2022-08-01'
---

## August 2022

### Announcements

#### Grace Maintenance & Storage Changes

The biannual scheduled maintenance for the Grace cluster will be occurring August 2-4. During this time, the cluster will be unavailable. See the Grace maintenance email announcement for more details.

During the maintenance, significant changes will be made to the project and scratch60 directories on Grace. See [our website for more information and updates](https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/data/loomis-decommission/).


#### SpinUp Researcher Image & Containers

Yale offers a simple portal for creating cloud-based compute resources called [SpinUp](https://spinup.yalepages.org). These cloud instances are hosted on Amazon Web Services, but have access to Yale services like Active Directory, DNS, and Storage at Yale. SpinUp offers a range of services including virtual machines, web servers, remote storage, and databases. 

Part of this service is a Researcher Image, an Ubuntu-based system which contains a suite of pre-installed commonly utilized software utilities, including:
- PyTorch, TensorFlow, Keras, and other GPU-accelerated deep learning frameworks
- GCC, Cmake, Go, and other development tools
- Singularity/Apptainer and Docker for container development

We recommend researchers looking to develop containers for use on YCRC HPC resources to utilize SpinUp to build containers which can then be copied to the clusters. 

If there are software utilities or commonly used tools that you would like added to the Researcher Image, let us know and we can work with the Cloud Team to get them integrated.


### Software Highlights

- **AFNI/2022.1.14** is now available on Farnam and Milgram.
- **cellranger/7.0.0** is now available on Grace.