---
date: '2022-04-01'
---

## April 2022

### Announcements

#### Updates to R on Open OnDemand
RStudio Server is out of beta! With the deprecation of R 3.x (see below), we will be removing RStudio Desktop with module R from Open OnDemand on June 1st.

#### Improvements to R install.packages Paths
Starting with the R 4.1.0 software module, we now automatically set an environment variable (`R_LIBS_USER`) which directs these packages to be stored in your project space. This will helps ensure that packages are not limited by home-space quotas and that packages installed for different versions of R are properly separated from each other. Previously installed packages should still be available and there should be no disruption from the change.

#### Instructions for Running a MySQL Server on the Clusters
Occasionally it could be useful for a user to run their own MySQL database server on one of the clusters.  Until now, that has not been possible, but recently we found a way using singularity.  Instructions may be found in our [new MySQL guide](/clusters-at-yale/guides/mysql/).

### Software Highlights

- **R 3.x modules have been deprecated** on all clusters and are no longer supported. If you need to continue to use an older version of R, look at our [R conda documentation](https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/clusters-at-yale/guides/r/#conda-based-r-environments).
- **R/4.1.0-foss-2020b** is now available on all clusters.
- **Seurat/4.1.0-foss-2020b-R-4.1.0** (for using the Seurat R package) is now available on all clusters.