---
date: '2023-08-01'
---

## August 2023

### Announcements

#### Ruddle Farewell: July 24, 2023

On the occasion of decommissioning the Ruddle cluster on July 24, the Yale Center for Genome Analysis (YCGA) and the Yale Center for Research Computing (YCRC) would like to acknowledge the profound impact Ruddle has had on computing at Yale. Ruddle provided the compute resources for YCGA's high throughput sequencing and supported genomic computing for hundreds of research groups at YSM and across the University. In February 2016, Ruddle replaced the previous biomedical cluster BulldogN. Since then, it has run more than 24 million user jobs comprising more than 73 million compute hours.

Funding for Ruddle came from NIH grant 1S10OD018521-01, with Shrikant Mane as PI. Ruddle is replaced by a dedicated partition and storage on the new McCleary cluster, which were funded by NIH grant 1S10OD030363-01A1, also awarded to Dr. Mane.

#### Upcoming Grace Maintenance: August 15-17, 2023

Scheduled maintenance will be performed on the Grace cluster starting on Tuesday, August 15, 2023, at 8:00 am. Maintenance is expected to be completed by the end of day, Thursday, August 17, 2023.

#### Upcoming Milgram Maintenance: August 22-24, 2023

Scheduled maintenance will be performed on the Milgram cluster starting on Tuesday, August 22, 2023, at 8:00 am. Maintenance is expected to be completed by the end of day, Thursday, August 24, 2023.

#### Grace Operating System Upgrade

As Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 7 approaches its end of life, we will be upgrading the Grace cluster from RHEL7 to RHEL8 during the August maintenance window. This will bring Grace in line with McCleary and provide a number of key benefits:

* continued security patches and support beyond 2023
* updated system libraries to better support modern software
* improved node management system to facilitate the growing number of nodes on Grace
* shared application tree between McCleary and Grace, which brings software parity between clusters

Three test partitions are available (`rhel8_day`, `rhel8_gpu`, and `rhel8_mpi`) for use in debugging workflows before the upgrade. These partitions should be accessed from the `rhel8_login` node.

### Software Highlights

* **Julia/1.9.2-linux-x86_64** available on Grace
* **Kraken2/2.1.3-gompi-2020b** available on McCleary
* **QuantumESPRESSO/7.0-intel-2020b** available on Grace
