---
date: '2023-07-01'
---

## July 2023

### Announcements

#### Red Hat 8 Test partitions on Grace

As Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 7 approaches its end of life, we will be upgrading the Grace cluster to RHEL8 during the August 15th-17th maintenance. This will bring Grace in line with McCleary and provide a number of key benefits:

* continued security patches and support beyond 2023
* updated system libraries to better support modern software
* improved node management system to facilitate the growing number of nodes on Grace
* shared application tree between McCleary and Grace, which brings software parity between clusters

While we have performed extensive testing, both internally and with the new McCleary cluster, we recognize that there are large numbers of custom workflows on Grace that may need to be modified to work with the new operating system.

Please note:  To enable debugging and testing of workflows ahead of the scheduled maintenance, we have set aside `rhel8_day`, `rhel8_gpu`, and `rhel8_mpi` partitions. You should access them from the `rhel8_login` node.

#### Two-factor Authentication for McCleary

To assure the security of the cluster and associated services, we have implemented two-factor authentication on the McCleary cluster. To simplify the transition, we have collected a set of best-practices and configurations of many of the commonly used access tools, including CyberDuck, MobaXTerm, and WinSCPon, which you can access on [our docs page](/clusters-at-yale/access/mfa/). If you are using other tools and experiencing issues, please [contact us](/) for assistance.  

#### New GPU Nodes on McCleary and Grace

We have installed new GPU nodes for McCleary and Grace, dramatically increasing the number of GPUs available on both clusters. McCleary has 14 new nodes (56 GPUs) added to the gpu partition and six nodes (24 GPUs) added to `pi_cryoem`.  Grace has 12 new nodes, available in the `rhel8_gpu` partition. Each of the new nodes contains 4 [NVIDIA A5000 GPUs](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/design-visualization/rtx-a5000/), with 24GB of on-board VRAM and PCIe4 connection to improve data-transport time.

### Software Highlights

* **MATLAB/2023a** available on all clusters
* **Beast/2.7.4-GCC-12.2.0** available on McCleary
* **AFNI/2023.1.07-foss-2020b** available on McCleary
* **FSL 6.0.5.1** (CPU-only and GPU-enabled versions) available on McCleary
