---
date: '2023-05-01'
---

## May 2023

### Announcements

#### Farnam Decommission: June 1, 2023

After many years of supporting productive science, the Farnam cluster will be decommissioned this summer as we transition to the newly deployed McCleary cluster. Logins will be disabled June 1, 2023, which will mark the official end of Farnam’s service. Read-only access to Farnam’s storage system (/gpfs/ysm) will be available on McCleary until July 13, 2023. All data on YSM (that you want to keep) will need to be transferred off YSM, either to non-HPC storage or to McCleary project space by you prior to YSM’s retirement.

#### Ruddle Decommission: July 1, 2023

After many years of serving YCGA, the Ruddle cluster will also be decommissioned this summer as we transition to the newly deployed McCleary cluster. Logins will be disabled July 1, 2023, which will mark the official end of Ruddle’s service. We will be migrating project and sequencing directories from Ruddle to McCleary. However, you are responsible for moving home and scratch data to McCleary before July 1, 2023.  
 
Please begin to migrate your data and workloads to McCleary at your earliest convenience and [reach out](/) with any questions.

### McCleary Transition Reminder

With our McCleary cluster now in a production stable state, we ask all Farnam users to ensure all home, project and scratch data the group wishes to keep is migrated to the new cluster ahead of the June 1st decommission. As June 1st is the formal retirement of Farnam, compute service charges on McCleary commons partitions will begin at this time. Ruddle users will have until July 1st to access the Ruddle and migrate their home and scratch data as needed. Ruddle users will NOT need to migrate their project directories; those will be automatically transferred to McCleary. As previously established on Ruddle, all jobs in the YCGA partitions will be exempt from compute service charges on the new cluster. For more information visit [our McCleary Transition documentation](https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/clusters/mccleary-farnam-ruddle/).

### Software Highlights

* **Libmamba solver for conda 23.1.0+** available on all clusters. Conda installations 23.1.0 and newer are now configured to use the faster environment solving algorithm developed by `mamba` by default. You can simply use `conda install` and enjoy the significantly faster solve times.
* **GSEA** available in McCleary and Ruddle OOD. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) is now available in McCleary OOD and Ruddle OOD for all users. You can access it by clicking “Interactive Apps'' and then selecting “GSEA”. GSEA is a popular computational method to do functional analysis of multi omics data. Data files for GSEA are not centrally stored on the clusters, so you will need to download them from the GSEA website by yourself.
* **NAG/29-GCCcore-11.2.0** available on Grace
* **AFNI/2023.1.01-foss-2020b-Python-3.8.6** on McCleary
