---
date: '2023-06-01'
---

## June 2023

### Announcements

#### McCleary Officially Launches

Today marks the official beginning of the McCleary cluster’s service. In addition to compute nodes migrated from Farnam and Ruddle, McCleary features our first set of direct-to-chip liquid cooled (DLC) nodes, moving YCRC into a more environmentally friendly future. McCleary is significantly larger than the Farnam and Ruddle clusters combined. The new DLC compute nodes are able to run faster and with higher CPU density due to their superior cooling system.

McCleary is named for Beatrix McCleary Hamburg, who received her medical degree in 1948 and was the first female African American graduate of Yale School of Medicine. 

#### Farnam Farewell: June 1, 2023

On the occasion of decommissioning the Farnam cluster on June 1, YCRC would like to acknowledge the profound impact Farnam has had on computing at Yale. Farnam supported biomedical computing at YSM and across the University providing compute resources to hundreds of research groups. Farnam replaced the previous biomedical cluster Louise, and began production in October 2016. Since then, it has run user jobs comprising more than 139 million compute hours. Farnam is replaced by the new cluster McCleary. 

Please note: Read-only access to Farnam’s storage system (/gpfs/ysm) will be available on McCleary until July 13, 2023. For more information see [McCleary transfer documentation](/data/mccleary-transfer/).

### Ruddle Decommission: July 1, 2023

The Ruddle cluster will be decommissioned and access will be disabled July 1, 2023. We will be migrating project and sequencing directories from Ruddle to McCleary.

Please note: Users are responsible for moving home and scratch data to McCleary prior to July 1, 2023. For more information and instructions, see our [McCleary transfer documentation](/data/mccleary-transfer/).



### Software Highlights

* ** R/4.3.0-foss-2020b+** available on all clusters. The newest version of R is now available on Grace, McCleary, and Milgram. This updates nearly 1000 packages and can be used in batch jobs and in RStudio sessions via Open OnDemand. 
* **AlphaFold/2.3.2-foss-2020b-CUDA-11.3.1** The latest version of AlphaFold (2.3.2, released in April) has been installed on McCleary and is ready for use. This version fixes a number of bugs and should improve GPU memory usage enabling longer proteins to be studied. 
* **LAMMPS/23Jun2022-foss-2020b-kokkos** available on McCleary
* **RevBayes/1.2.1-GCC-10.2.0** available on McCleary
* **Spark 3.1.1** (CPU-only and GPU-enabled versions) available on McCleary
