---
date: '2023-12-01'
---

## December 2023

### Announcements

#### Grace Maintenance - Multi-Factor Authentication

The biannual scheduled maintenance for the Grace cluster will be occurring Dec 5-7. During this time, the cluster will be unavailable. See the Grace maintenance email announcements for more details.

[Multi-Factor authentication via Duo](https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/clusters-at-yale/access/mfa/) will be required for ssh for all users on Grace after the maintenance.  For most usage, this additional step is minimally invasive and makes our clusters much more secure. However, for users who use graphical transfer tools such as Cyberduck, please see our [MFA transfer documentation](https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/data/transfer/#cyberduck-on-mccleary-and-milgram).

#### `scavenge_gpu` and `scavenge_mpi`

In addition to the general purpose scavenge partition, we also have two resource specific scavenge partitions, `scavenge_gpu` (Grace, McCleary) and `scavenge_mpi` (Grace only). The `scavenge_gpu` partition contains all GPU enabled nodes, commons and privately owned. Similarly, the `scavenge_mpi` partition contains all nodes similar to the `mpi` partition. Both partitions have higher priority for their respective nodes than normal scavenge (meaning jobs submitted to `scavenge_gpu` or `scavenge_mpi` will preempt normal scavenge jobs). All scavenge partitions are exempt from CPU charges.

### Software Highlights

- **IMOD/4.12.56_RHEL7-64_CUDA12.1** is now available on McCleary and Grace