---
date: '2024-05-01'
---

## May 2024

### Announcements

#### Yale Joins MGHPCC

We are excited to share that Yale University has recently become a member of the Massachusetts Green High Performance Computing Center (MGHPCC), a not-for-profit data center designed for computationally-intensive research. The construction of a dedicated space for Yale within the facility and the installation of high-speed networking between Yale's campus and MGHPCC are currently underway. The first High-Performance Computing (HPC) hardware installations are expected to take place later this year. As more information becomes available, we will keep our users updated


#### OneIT Conference 

Earlier this year Yale ITS hosted the first in-person One IT conference, [“Advancing Collaborations: One IT as a Catalyst”](https://your.yale.edu/news/2024/04/conference-edition-capturing-spirit-one-it. IT and IT-adjacent personnel from across campus came together to discuss topics that impact research and university operations. YCRC team members participated in a variety of sessions ranging from Research Storage and Software to the role of AI in higher education. 

Additionally, YCRC team members presented two posters. The first, [A Graphical Interface for Research and Education](https://image.s10.sfmc-content.com/lib/fe4515707564047b751572/m/1/83cc1a22-d9d3-498d-8a17-8088de496674.pdf, highlighted Open OnDemand and its barrier-reducing impact on courses and research alike. The second, [Globus: a platform for secure, efficient file transfer](https://image.s10.sfmc-content.com/lib/fe4515707564047b751572/m/1/52559eed-25ab-49c9-80be-6ce99fb95b25.pdf, demonstrated our successful deployment of Globus to improve data management and cross-institutional sharing of research materials. 


### Software Highlights

- **Spark** is now available on Grace, McCleary and Milgram
- **Nextflow/22.10.6** is now available on Grace and McCleary
