---
date: '2024-11-01'
---

## November 2024

### Announcements

#### YCRC Welcomes Ruth Marinshaw as the New Executive Director

YCRC Team is delighted to welcome Ruth Marinshaw as our new Executive Director. Ruth joined Yale this week to serve as the university's primary technologist to support the computing needs of Yale's research community. She will work with colleagues across campus to implement and operate computational technologies that support Yale faculty, students, and staff in conducting cutting-edge research.

Ruth brings to Yale over twenty years of experience leading technology and research services in higher education. Ruth had held multiple positions at The University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, overseeing research computing services, staff, and systems and creating new service partnerships across the university. Over the last twelve years, Ruth served as chief technology officer for research computing at Stanford University. Under Ruth's leadership, Stanford's research computing and cyberinfrastructure services, systems, facilities, and support have grown significantly. She developed a team of research computing professionals and forged critical partnerships across the institution. Ruth was pivotal in establishing an NVIDIA SuperPOD - a data science and AI-focused research instrument envisioned by Stanford’s faculty.

Throughout her career, Ruth has contributed expertise to national conversations on research computing and currently serves as co-chair of the National Science Foundation's Advisory Committee for Cyberinfrastructure.

With exciting initiatives on the horizon, we look forward to Ruth's leadership and guidance in supporting Yale's research community's current and emerging needs. Welcome aboard, Ruth!

[Read the announcement from John Barden, Vice President for Information Technology and Campus Services, and Michael Crair, Vice Provost for Research.](https://research.yale.edu/announcements/welcoming-ruth-marinshaw-executive-director-research-computing-technologies)

#### Bouchet Beta Testing for Tightly Coupled Parallel Workflows

The YCRC’s first installation at Massachusetts Green High Performance Computing Center will be the HPC cluster Bouchet*.

The first installation of nodes, approximately 4,000 direct-liquid-cooled cores, will be dedicated to tightly coupled parallel workflows, such as those run in the “mpi” partition on the Grace cluster.

We would like to invite you to participate in Bouchet beta testing. We are seeking tightly coupled, parallel workloads only to participate in this phase of development. If you have a suitable parallel workload and would like to participate in testing, please complete the [Bouchet Beta Request Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScjJYSkpyu-UqGH09Tgp2HS3xQ0NFjLOdg6_pRAMDKr4uiU0w/viewform?usp=send_form) and we will contact you with additional information about accessing and using Bouchet.

Following the beta testing (early 2025), we will be acquiring and installing thousands of general purpose compute cores as well as GPU-enabled compute nodes. At that time Bouchet will become available to all Yale researchers for computational work involving low-risk data. Stay tuned for more information on availability of the cluster. 

\*The cluster named after Edward Bouchet (1852-1918) who earned a PhD in physics at Yale University in 1876, making him the first self-identified African American to earn a doctorate from an American university. 
