---
date: '2024-08-01'
---

## August 2024

### Announcements

#### Milgram Maintenance

The biannual scheduled maintenance for the Milgram cluster will be occurring August 20-22. During this time, the cluster will be unavailable. See the Milgram maintenance email announcements for more details.

#### YCRC HPC User Portal

We have recently deployed a web-based User Portal for Grace, McCleary, and Milgram clusters to help researchers view information about their activity on our clusters. Accessible under the “Utilities” tab on Open OnDemand (or at the links below), the portal currently features five pages with personalized data about your cluster usage and guidance on navigating and operating the clusters. Users can easily track their jobs and visualize their utilization through charts, tables, and graphs, helping to optimize their cluster use. To try out the User portal please visit either:
 
- [Grace](https://ood-grace.ycrc.yale.edu/pun/sys/ycrc_userportal)
- [McCleary](https://ood-mccleary.ycrc.yale.edu/pun/sys/ycrc_userportal)
- [Milgram](https://ood-milgram.ycrc.yale.edu/pun/sys/ycrc_userportal)


If you have any suggestions for useful pages for the User Portal, please email research.computing@yale.edu

#### Yale Task Force on Artificial Intelligence

As recommended by the [Yale Task Force on Artificial Intelligence](https://provost.yale.edu/news/report-yale-task-force-artificial-intelligence), the YCRC will be adding a large number of new high-end GPUs to the clusters to meet growing demand for AI compute resources. Stay tuned for details and updates on availability in the coming months!

#### Research Support at PEARC24

During the week of July 22nd, the YCRC Research Support team attended the annual [PEARC conference](https://pearc.acm.org/), a conference specifically focused on the research computing community. The team had the opportunity to meet with many of our peer institutions to discuss our common challenges and opportunities and attend sessions to learn about new solutions. We look forward to bringing some new ideas to the YCRC this year!

### Software Highlights

- **ORCA/6.0.0-gompi-2022b** is now available on Grace and McCleary