---
date: '2024-03-01'
---

## March 2024

### Announcements

#### CPU Usage Reporting with `getusage`

Researchers frequently wish to get a breakdown of their groups' cluster-usage. While Slurm provides tooling for querying the database, it is not particularly user-friendly. We have developed a tool, `getusage`, which allows researchers to quickly get insight into their groups’ usage, broken down by date and user, including a monthly summary report. Please try this tool and let us know if there are any enhancement requests or ideas.   


#### Changes to RStudio on the Web Portal

[Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) (VSCode) is a popular development tool that is widely used by our researchers. While there are several extensions that allow users to connect to remote servers over SSH, these are imperfect and often drops connection. Additionally, these remote sessions connect to the clusters' login nodes, where resources are limited. 

To meet the growing demand for this particular development tool, we have deployed an application for Open OnDemand that launches VS Code Server directly on a compute node which can then be accessed via web-browser. This OOD application is called `code_server` and is available on all clusters. For more information see [our OOD docs page](https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/clusters-at-yale/access/ood/.

#### Retirement of Grace RHEL7 Apps Tree

As part of our routine deprecation of older software we removed Grace's old application tree (from before the RedHat 8 upgrade) from the default Standard Environment on March 1st. After March 1st, the older module tree will no longer appear when `module avail` is run and will fail to load going forward. If you have concerns about any missing software, please contact us at research.computing@yale.edu.


### Software Highlights

- **FSL/6.0.5.2-centos7_64** is now available on Milgram
- **Nextflow/23.10.1** is now available on Grace & McCleary
