---
date: '2024-12-01'
---

## December 2024

### Announcements

#### New YCRC HPC Compute Charging Model

Effective December 1st 2024, the current YCRC CPU-Hour based service charges have been replaced with new Priority Tier service charges. The YCRC has added a new Priority Tier of partitions that is an opt-in, fast lane for computational jobs. All computation on the “standard” tier of partitions (e.g. day, week, mpi, gpu) no longer incur charges. Private nodes and scavenge partitions continue to not incur charges. Visit [Priority Tier documentation](https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/clusters-at-yale/job-scheduling/priority-tier/) for more information and to request access. The new compute charging model was developed in close collaboration with faculty, YCRC staff, and university administrators to ensure the YCRC service charging models support the researchers relying on our systems as well as the needs of the University.

#### Upcoming Grace Maintenance

Due to the limited updates needed on Grace at this time, the current maintenance period (Dec 3-Dec 4) will bring forth only limited disruptions to our services. The Grace cluster and storage will remain online and available throughout the maintenance period and there will be no disruption to running or pending batch jobs. However, certain services will be unavailable for short periods during the maintenance window.  The availability of compute nodes will be reduced at times, so users might experience temporarily increased wait times. Please refer to the Maintenance Announcement email for more details.