---
date: '2024-04-01'
---

## April 2024

### Announcements

#### New Grace Nodes
We are pleased to announce the addition of 84 new direct-liquid-cooled compute nodes to the commons partitions (day and week) on Grace.  These new nodes are of the Intel Icelake generation and have 48 cores each. These nodes also have increased RAM compared to other nodes on Grace, with 10GB per core. The day partition is now close to 11,000 cores and the week partition is now entirely composed of these nodes. A significant number of purchased nodes of similar design have also been added to respective private partitions and are available to all users via the scavenge partition.

#### Limited McCleary Maintenance - April 2nd
Due to the limited updates needed on McCleary at this time, the upcoming April maintenance will not be a full 3-day downtime, but rather a one-day maintenance with limited disruption.  The McCleary cluster and storage will remain online and available throughout the maintenance period and there will be no disruption to running or pending batch jobs.  However, certain services will be unavailable for short periods throughout the day.  See maintenance announcement email for full details.

#### Cluster Node Status in Open OnDemand
A Cluster Node Status app is now available in the Open OnDemand web portal on all clusters. This new app presents information about CPU, GPU and memory utilization for each compute node with the cluster. The app can be found under ‘Utilities’ -> ‘Cluster Node Status’. 

#### Retirement of Grace RHEL7 Apps Tree
As part of our routine deprecation of older software, we removed Grace's old application tree (from before the RedHat 8 upgrade) from the default Standard Environment on March 6th. After March 6th, the older module tree will no longer appear when `module avail` is run and will fail to load. If you have concerns about missing software, please contact us at research.computing@yale.edu.

### Software Highlights

- **R/4.3.2-foss-2022b** is now available on Grace and McCleary
	- Corresponding Bioconductor and CRAN bundles are also now available
- **PyTorch/2.1.2-foss-2022b-CUDA-12.0.0** with CUDA is available on Grace and McCleary