---
date: '2024-10-01'
---

## October 2024

### Announcements

#### Announcing Bouchet

The Bouchet HPC cluster, YCRC's first installation at MGHPCC, will be in beta in Fall 2024. The first installation of nodes, approximately 4,000 direct-liquid-cooled cores, will be dedicated to tightly coupled parallel workflows, such as those run in the “mpi” partition on the Grace cluster. Later this year, we will acquire and install a large number of general-purpose compute nodes and GPU-enabled compute nodes. At that point, Bouchet will be available to all Yale researchers for computational work involving low-risk data.  Visit the [Bouchet page](clusters/bouchet) for more information and updates.

#### Jobstats on the Web

In our quest to provide detailed information about job performance and efficiency, we have recently enhanced the web-based jobstats portal to show summary statistics and plots of CPU, Memory, GPU, and GPU memory usage over time. 

These plots are helpful diagnostics for understanding why jobs fail or how to more efficiently request resources. These plots and statistics are available for in-progress jobs, a great way to keep track of performance while jobs are still running. This tool is part of the User Portal which can be accessed via Open OnDemand for each cluster:

- [Grace](https://ood-grace.ycrc.yale.edu/pun/sys/ycrc_userportal)
- [McCleary](https://ood-mccleary.ycrc.yale.edu/pun/sys/ycrc_userportal)
- [Milgram](https://ood-milgram.ycrc.yale.edu/pun/sys/ycrc_userportal)


### Software Highlights

- **GROMACS/2023.3-foss-2022b-CUDA-12.1.1-PLUMED-2.9.2** is now available on Grace and McCleary