---
date: '2024-06-01'
---

## June 2024

### Announcements

#### Grace Maintenance

The biannual scheduled maintenance for the Grace cluster will be occurring Jun 4-6. During this time, the cluster will be unavailable. See the Grace maintenance email announcements for more details. 


#### Compute Usage Monitoring in Web Portal

We have developed a suite of tools to enable research groups to monitor their combined utilization of cluster resources. We perform nightly queries of Slurm's database to aggregate cluster usage (in cpu_hours) broken down by user, account, and partition. These data are available both as a command-line utility (getusage) and a recently deployed web-application built into Open OnDemand. This can be accessed directly via:

Grace: [ood-grace.ycrc.yale.edu/pun/sys/ycrc_getusage](ood-grace.ycrc.yale.edu/pun/sys/ycrc_getusage)
McCleary: [ood-mccleary.ycrc.yale.edu/pun/sys/ycrc_getusage](ood-mccleary.ycrc.yale.edu/pun/sys/ycrc_getusage)
Milgram: [ood-milgram.ycrc.yale.edu/pun/sys/ycrc_getusage](ood-milgram.ycrc.yale.edu/pun/sys/ycrc_getusage)

Additionally, the Getusage web-app can be accessed via the “Utilities” pull-down menu after logging into Open OnDemand.


#### NAIRR Resources for AI

Looking for compute resource for your AI or AI-enabled research? In the NAIRR Pilot, the US National Science Foundation (NSF), the US Department of Energy (DOE), and numerous other partners are providing access to a set of computing, model, platform and educational resources for projects related to advancing AI research. Applications for resources from the NAIRR pilot are lightweight and we are happy to assist with any questions you may have. 

[https://nairrpilot.org/opportunities/allocations](https://nairrpilot.org/opportunities/allocations)
