---
date: '2025-04-01'
---

## April 2025

### Announcements

#### Cluster User Town Hall Meeting

Please join us in shaping a meaningful long-term vision and strategy for YCRC as we advance our mission of supporting cutting-edge research. The session will include a brief presentation on recent developments and upcoming plans, followed by an open forum for questions and feedback. We look forward to hearing from you.
 
_YCRC User Town Hall  
Date: Monday, April 14, 2025  
Time: 12:30 PM - 2:00 PM  
Location:  YCRC Auditorium, 160 St Ronan Street_

This meeting is in-person-only to enable the conversations to be the most interactive. Please register to assist us in getting an accurate headcount. Pizza will be served.
  
####  Bouchet Expansion Coming This Spring

The Bouchet cluster will be expanded later this spring to include NVIDIA GPUs and additional CPU resources. As part of the AI Initiative, we will introduce 80 H200 GPU cards, each with 140GB of VRAM and advanced networking capabilities. This upgrade will enable large-scale AI work to be performed on our computing systems.  Additionally, we will make available 48 A5000 ADA cards, each with 32GB of VRAM, for general-purpose workflows. Furthermore, 6,000 CPUs will enhance the existing resources for general computation, including several nodes equipped with 4TB of RAM.

Once these nodes are operational, we will grant access to the Bouchet cluster for researchers from all domains.
  
#### Using Nextflow on the clusters

Nextflow is a widely used workflow tool with an active community and numerous prebuilt pipelines, especially in the field of bioinformatics. You can learn more and access training, documentation, and examples at [Nextflow webpage](https://www.nextflow.io/.

Our team has developed specific guidelines to help our users run Nextflow pipelines on YCRC's clusters most efficiently. For more information please visit [docs.ycrc.yale.edu/clusters-at-yale/guides/nextflow](https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/clusters-at-yale/guides/nextflow).

### Software Highlights

- **Mathematica/14.2.0** now available on Grace and McCleary
- **AlphaFold/3.0.1** now available on Grace and McCleary