---
date: '2025-05-01'
---

## May 2025

### Announcements

#### Announcing Hopper Secure Computing Environment

We are pleased to announce the upcoming launch of [Hopper](https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/clusters/hopper/), our new secure high performance computing cluster, scheduled for deployment in Summer 2025. Upon completion, Hopper will have undergone rigorous external auditing for NIST 800-171 and HIPAA compliance, making it suitable for high performance computation of electronic Protected Health Information (ePHI), NIH Controlled-Access Data, Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI), and other sensitive data types.

This secure computing environment represents a collaborative effort between the YCRC and Health Sciences IT, to ensure enhanced support for secure computational research. Hopper complements Yale's secure computing portfolio, which includes SpinUp+ and [Computational Health Platform (CHP)](https://medicine.yale.edu/ybic/computational-resources/ynhhs/#computational-health-platform), developed to address the diverse secure computing needs of the Yale research community.

We anticipate Hopper will be fully operational and available to Yale researchers by July 2025, with access procedures to be announced in June. 
  
#### NIH Controlled Access Data on McCleary

Effective January 25, 2025, all new or renewed Data Use Certifications for NIH Controlled-Access Data and Repositories must comply with the [NIH Security Best Practices for Users of Controlled-Access Data](https://sharing.nih.gov/sites/default/files/flmngr/NIH-Security-BPs-for-Users-of-Controlled-Access-Data.pdf).

During the development phase of the YCRC's new cluster [Hopper](https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/clusters/hopper/),  Yale University has successfully completed the required documentation to designate McCleary as an approved environment for housing NIH Controlled-Access Data and Repositories, subject to specific conditions.

For more information and access requests, please consult our [NIH Controlled-Access Data documentation](https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/data/nih-data/).

#### YCRC User Town Hall Meetings

Throughout April, the YCRC Leadership hosted a series of Town Hall meetings with Principal Investigators on Science Hill and at the Medical Library and welcoming all users to our 160 St Ronan Street location.

During these sessions, we presented significant updates regarding our computing infrastructure expansion, team growth initiatives, and strategic calibration of services to address the evolving computational needs of the Yale research community. The meetings provided a forum for us to hear directly from both PI and non-PI users about their specific requirements, concerns, and innovative suggestions for enhancing our support framework.

We extend our sincere appreciation to everyone who participated in these discussions, contributing to our mission of advancing computational research at Yale. We look forward to continuing this productive dialogue in the future Town Hall meetings. 

### Software Highlights

- **FreeSurfer/8.0.0** now available on Grace, McCleary and Milgram