---
date: '2025-12-01'
---

## December 2025

### Reminder of Upcoming Cluster Maintenance

There will be two cluster maintenance events this month:

- Hopper — December 10
- Grace, Bouchet, Milgram, Misha, McCleary — December 17–18

Reminder emails outlining the details were sent to the affected users. For more information, please visit [https://research.computing.yale.edu/system-status](https://research.computing.yale.edu/system-status). For assistance, contact [research.computing@yale.edu](mailto:research.computing@yale.edu).

### Leveraging Yale's Bouchet HPC Cluster for Molecular Simulations

On November 10th, YCRC Computational Research Support Analyst, Aya Nawano, Ph.D., delivered a Bouchet presentation at the second annual [Computational Molecular Sciences & Engineering Symposium](https://cmsesymposium.yale.edu/2025-cmse-symposium). Hosted by the research group of Professor Corey O'Hern, the symposium featured talks on molecular modeling and scientific computing by graduate students, postdocs, and faculty from research groups across Yale. Aya discussed the Bouchet cluster's current hardware, future expansions, available molecular simulation software, and benchmark results.

### YCRC Staff Members Receive the Lorimer Award for Outstanding Staff Contributions

YCRC staff members Adam Munro, Senior High Performance Computing System Administrator, and Matthew Petersen, High Performance Computing System Administrator, have been recognized by President Maurie McInnis with the Linda Lorimer Award for Distinguished Service, as part of a cross-departmental team responsible for ensuring that Yale has technology services to support research projects involving regulated data.

Driven by a shared purpose, this team of six from the Yale Center for Research Computing, Information Technology Services, and Yale School of Medicine developed groundbreaking computing platforms for the secure analysis of high-risk data, enabling researchers to pursue breakthrough discoveries while complying with some of the most stringent regulations, focusing specifically on HIPAA and NIST 800-171.

For information about all of this year's award recipients, visit [https://your.yale.edu/working-at-yale/staff-recognition/linda-lorimer-award/award-recipients](https://your.yale.edu/working-at-yale/staff-recognition/linda-lorimer-award/award-recipients).

### YCRC Team at SC25

During the week of November 16th, members of the YCRC staff attended the annual [SC25](https://sc25.supercomputing.org/) in St. Louis, MO. The team had the opportunity to meet with many peer institutions to discuss common challenges, and to learn about the latest trends and offerings from vendors and industry experts. We look forward to incorporating new ideas and solutions from SC25 in YCRC's offerings going forward.

The MGHPCC SC25 virtual booth featured several of Yale's computational research projects; you can learn more by visiting the [MGHPCC SC25 page](https://www.mghpcc.org/sc/yale-university/). In addition, Executive Director Ruth Marinshaw was part of a team of experienced community professionals leading an all-day tutorial on "Delivering HPC: Procurement, Cost Models, Metrics, Value and More."

### LLMs GitHub Repository Release

YCRC has created a [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ycrc/llms-on-hpc) with the code workflow to accompany the recent workshop on using LLMs on Yale's clusters. The workflow has been revised to use our recently updated Ollama module, which simplifies using Ollama on the cluster. To enable anyone to use the repository (whether or not you attended the workshop and received a Bouchet course account), it assumes you are using your regular HPC account and includes notes for working on clusters other than Bouchet. Any interested user can now access the workshop [presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lw5FUAJuziGIb5GpviSy2t-Swo2EU-aZ/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=105690574600061947997&rtpof=true&sd=true) and run the workflow to discover how to use LLMs on the cluster.
