---
date: '2025-08-01'
---

## August 2025

### Announcements

#### AI Initiative GPUs Now Available

Following the [AI Task Force's recommendation](https://provost.yale.edu/yale-task-force-artificial-intelligence) that the university invest in high-end GPUs over the next several years, we are thrilled to announce the first set of GPUs funded by the [Provost’s AI Initiative](https://provost.yale.edu/news/advancing-yales-leadership-artificial-intelligence-support-faculty-students-and-staff) are now available on the YCRC clusters.

- 80 H200 NVIDIA GPUs on Bouchet (for research without sensitive data).
- 32 H200 NVIDIA GPUs on Hopper (for research requiring NIST 800-171, HIPAA, or other sensitive data)
- 12 H100 NVIDIA GPUs on Milgram (for research with unregulated sensitive data)

Please [contact us](/#get-help) with questions and for assistance. 

#### Priority Tier “Fast-Lane” Available

On December 1st, 2024, we introduced Priority Tier partitions on Bouchet, Grace, McCleary and Milgram. Jobs submitted to a Priority Tier partition precede all pending jobs in the corresponding standard tier partitions in the scheduling queue to provide a “fast-lane”. The Priority Tier partitions are also composed of the YCRC’s newest nodes and GPUs, ensuring priority jobs run on our fastest and most powerful resources. If you are interested in using Priority Tier, you can learn more and request access on [our Priority Tier docs page](https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/clusters-at-yale/job-scheduling/priority-tier/).

#### Research Support at PEARC25

During the week of July 20th, the YCRC Research Support team attended the [annual PEARC conference](https://pearc.acm.org/pearc25/), a conference specifically focused on the research computing community. The team had the opportunity to meet with many of our peer institutions to discuss our common challenges and opportunities and attend sessions to learn about new solutions. We look forward to incorporating new ideas and solutions from PEARC to the YCRC’s offerings this year!

### Software Highlights

- We are adding commonly used software from Grace & McCleary to Bouchet. Be sure to check the available software via `module avail` to see if we have pre-installed the software you need and [contact us](/#get-help) with questions and requests for software. 