---
date: '2025-02-01'
---

## February 2025

### Announcements

#### Bouchet is Now in Production

We are excited to announce that the beta testing period for the [Bouchet](https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/clusters/bouchet/) cluster has concluded, and the cluster is now officially in production. This marks our first cluster at the [Massachusetts Green High Performance Computing Center](https://www.mghpcc.org/) and signifies an important milestone in our transition to a purpose-built data center for academic research computing.

Currently, the cluster is limited to tightly coupled parallel workflows. However, we are actively working on acquiring general-purpose compute and GPU nodes, which will expand access to all Yale researchers whose computational work involves low-risk data. We will provide more information about the timeline for availability of these nodes soon.
 
#### Milgram Maintenance - Tuesday, February 4th, 2025

Due to the small number of updates needed on Milgram, the upcoming February maintenance will result in limited disruptions. The Milgram cluster and storage will remain online and available throughout the maintenance period, and there will be no disruption to running or pending batch jobs. However, certain services will be unavailable for short periods during the maintenance window. Users might experience temporarily increased wait times, as maintenance activities will, at times, reduce the availability of compute nodes.

Please refer to the Maintenance Announcement email sent on January 14, 2025 for more details.
