---
date: '2025-03-01'
---

## March 2025

### Announcements

#### Bouchet Open OnDemand

We are excited to announce that Bouchet’s Open OnDemand web portal is now live! Currently, Remote Desktop and Jupyter applications are available, and we are working to expand this list in the coming months. Please visit [ood-bouchet.ycrc.yale.edu](https://ood-bouchet.ycrc.yale.edu) (VPN login required) and email research.computing@yale.edu if you would like to request specific applications that would enhance your workflows.
  
#### LLM User Documentation

The YCRC has released instructions for installing and using HuggingFace and Ollama to conduct LLM research on research computing hardware. You may find them by visiting [docs.ycrc.yale.edu/clusters-at-yale/guides/LLMs/](https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/clusters-at-yale/guides/LLMs/). These instructions cover both interactive sessions, such as Jupyter notebooks, and batch submissions for larger jobs.

This documentation is the first in a series planned for this year that will focus on AI and machine learning. For additional information and user guidance, please contact research.computing@yale.edu.
  
#### Ollama Module Available

A module has been installed on McCleary, Grace, and Milgram clusters to facilitate easy access to various LLM models through the Ollama program.
With Ollama, researchers can download and run popular LLMs offline, which enhances the protection of their data.

For instructions on how to run the module, please refer to our documentation page located at [docs.ycrc.yale.edu/clusters-at-yale/guides/LLMs/](https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/clusters-at-yale/guides/LLMs/).

### Software Highlights

- The latest **RELION** version 5.0.0 cryo-EM image-processing package is now available on McCleary and Grace.