---
date: '2026-04-01'
---

## April 2026

### New Compute Nodes Available on Bouchet

YCRC has purchased additional compute and GPU nodes that are now available for your use on Bouchet. We invested primarily in GPU capabilities, in response to the continued demand for accelerator-based computing.

- **CPU Expansion:** 26 new nodes (128 CPUs each) are now available in the `day_amd` partition. These 3,300+ cores will be merged into the `day` and `week` partitions over time, representing a 50% increase in the available cores in these partitions.
- **GPU Upgrades:** 64 RTX6000 Pro Blackwell (Server Edition) GPUs (96GB VRAM, 8 cards per node) are now available in the `gpu_rtx6000` partition.
- **AI Initiative GPUs:** 56 flagship B200 GPUs (193GB VRAM, 8 cards per node) with dedicated high-speed networking have been received and are being installed now. These cards will soon be available in the `gpu_b200` partition and will enable training of larger foundation models on YCRC infrastructure.
- **AMD Architecture:** All new nodes have AMD CPUs; in the past, YCRC has typically deployed Intel CPUs. The AMD chips offer higher core-density while outperforming the current generation of Intel CPUs. There are some architectural differences between the new AMD chips and the existing Bouchet Intel-based chips that may impact software compilation and application performance. Please visit [Bouchet AMD nodes](/clusters/bouchet_amd/) for additional information.

### CryoSPARC Upgrade

YCRC has introduced a new workflow for CryoSPARC structural biology software on the Bouchet and McCleary clusters. This addresses CryoSPARC's tendency to leave valuable GPU resources sitting idle on cluster servers, and also introduces compatibility with the latest CryoSPARC versions 5.0.x. Please consult our [User Guide CryoSPARC page](/clusters-at-yale/guides/cryosparc/) for details on how to start using the new workflow.

### Grace & McCleary Decommissioning

The YCRC is in the process of transitioning computing and storage resources from the Yale West Campus Data Center to the MGHPCC data center. The [Bouchet cluster](/clusters/bouchet/), Yale's first cluster hosted at MGHPCC, is the successor to both Grace and McCleary, with HPC infrastructure refreshes deployed at MGHPCC going forward. In 2026, we are decommissioning Grace and non-YCGA portions of McCleary. During this phased migration:

- Grace will be fully decommissioned as a standalone cluster.
- The McCleary cluster will be downsized to support exclusively YCGA-affiliated workloads.
- Newer nodes from Grace and McCleary and some attached storage will be moved to MGHPCC and added to Bouchet as additional capacity.

#### Phase 1

Over the next few months, in Phase 1 of the decommission, Grace and McCleary users who do not use dedicated compute nodes or YCGA resources need to:

1. Move their data off of those systems.
2. Transition workloads to Bouchet.

Phase 1 users should have received an email — please contact us if you think you qualify for Phase 1 and have not received any communications. All other users will receive communications about Phases 2 and 3 this summer.

For more information, visit the [Grace & McCleary Decommission page](/clusters/grace-mccleary-decommission/).