---
date: '2026-01-01'
---

## January 2026

### Happy New Year from the YCRC Team!

As we begin 2026, we're energized by the innovative research happening across Yale and grateful to support your computational work. Here's to a productive and successful year ahead.

### YCRC Attends Yale AI Research Support Retreat

In early December, several YCRC staff members attended Yale's AI Research Support Retreat at West Campus. The retreat gathered AI research support staff from Yale's departments and colleges to share notes and best practices and understand the varied needs of researchers.

The retreat had an open, collaborative format. The day started with short, roundtable discussions in small groups, each led by a representative from the participating organizations (YCRC led one of these discussions). This format enabled a free-flowing conversation in which participants could share their understanding of YCRC's role in the broader solution space at Yale and learn more about YCRC's services and offerings.

The day also featured short presentations from participating organizations and from researchers using AI at Yale. YCRC presented ideas to increase LLM accessibility and use precious GPU resources more efficiently through new services dedicated to inference workloads. Stay tuned for updates in this area.

Overall, the retreat effectively brought support personnel together and identified several areas where Yale can improve the cohesion, breadth, and efficiency of AI support for its researchers.