---
date: '2026-03-01'
---

## March 2026

### Grace & McCleary Decommissioning

The YCRC is in the process of transitioning computing and storage resources from the Yale West Campus Data Center to the MGHPCC data center. The [Bouchet cluster](/clusters/bouchet/), Yale's first cluster hosted at MGHPCC, is the successor to both Grace and McCleary, with HPC infrastructure refreshes deployed at MGHPCC going forward. In 2026, we are decommissioning Grace and non-YCGA portions of McCleary. During this phased migration:

- Grace will be fully decommissioned as a standalone cluster.
- The McCleary cluster will be downsized to support exclusively YCGA-affiliated workloads.
- Newer nodes from Grace and McCleary and some attached storage will be moved to MGHPCC and added to Bouchet as additional capacity.

#### Phase 1

Over the next few months, in Phase 1 of the decommission, Grace and McCleary users who do not use dedicated compute nodes or YCGA resources need to:

1. Move their data off of those systems.
2. Transition workloads to Bouchet.

Phase 1 users should have received an email — please contact us if you think you qualify for Phase 1 and have not received any communications. All other users will receive communications about Phases 2 and 3 this summer.

For more information, visit the [Grace & McCleary Decommission page](/clusters/grace-mccleary-decommission/).

### Globus Tips for McCleary Users

The Grace [Globus](/data/globus/) Collection, "Yale CRC Grace", has been upgraded to provide faster transfer speeds to Bouchet. Both McCleary and Grace users have access to "Yale CRC Grace". Users with both McCleary and Grace accounts will see their Grace home directories when connecting to the collection, but can also access their McCleary home directory at `/vast/palmer/home.mccleary/<netid>`.

All YCGA data should stay on McCleary. The YCGA compute nodes and YCGA sequencing data will remain on McCleary and only on McCleary for the remaining lifetime of the YCGA-owned hardware (another couple of years).