---
date: '2026-02-01'
---

## February 2026

### AI Documentation

In-depth documentation on AI on Yale Research Computing Resources is now available on the YCRC docs page ([https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/ai/](/ai/)). Topics include:

- Understanding GPU availability and beginner LLM tips on YCRC systems
- Instructions for using Ollama, including examples
- Instructions for setting up Hugging Face
- Guidance on using Jobstats to understand GPU performance and improving job completion speed
- Installation guidance for `flash_attention`, `vllm`, and `esmfold`
- Clarity on benefits for API-based models (OpenAI, etc.)

### GPU and LLM Resources on the Clusters

For a quick summary of available GPU resources on each cluster and a general recommendation of ideal workflows, please visit [https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/ai/resources/#cluster-gpu-summary](https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/ai/resources/#cluster-gpu-summary).

### AI Coding Agents Warning

AI coding agents are powerful and exciting new tools. While AI chatbots can suggest code snippets and provide guidance on potential actions you can take, AI coding agents go further by taking the reins — actually editing your code or executing actions on your behalf. While useful, this means these tools come with significant risks. AI coding agents could:

- Exfiltrate and expose data, code, or login credentials
- Delete, edit, or move your data
- Execute malicious code

When running coding agents on your laptop, these risks are limited to you. On a high-performance cluster, risks extend to others, including your labmates' data and security, as well as publicly shared resources. Following best security practices significantly reduces the risk of an unfortunate scenario. If you are considering or currently using a coding agent, please read [YCRC's warning about AI coding tools](https://docs.ycrc.yale.edu/ai/aicodingtools/) to understand your risks and how you can best protect yourself and others.

### Announcing the AICR Cluster

We are excited to announce that a new AI-focused computing cluster, [AICR](https://www.mghpcc.org/sc/project/mghpcc-ai-computing-resource-aicr/), will be available to Yale researchers later this year. AICR is a new collaborative compute resource at the MGHPCC that will provide advanced computing and data infrastructure for MGHPCC members (including Yale), partners, and the Massachusetts AI Hub. The cluster will initially contain hundreds of NVIDIA B200 and RTX6000 Pro GPUs for AI and AI-enabled research. More information will be available in the coming months, including how to request access.